---
consolidation_pause:
date: 2021-10-08
tags: Fail, Win, Challenges, Implications, Feedback, Changes
---

# Introduction 
This consolidation document will cover my fails, wins, challenges, and responses relevant to materials for weeks 1 - 3. The document will conclude with how I plan to move forward into the next section of material based on the feedback I have received and my own self reflection.

## Fail
+ I began week 1 of the course with a blunder, which in a course with *glorious failures* as a theme  is perhaps not a bad way to start after all. I made the assumption that the format of our notes and logs would be the same as in HIST 3814, and this was not the case. In response to the feedback I received, I remade my Journal and Log entries to fit within the appropriate templates.
+ In week 2, I did not have any "practical" Fails. I did run into some challenges (see challenge section) but overall I was able to log some gravestones without anything breaking or making any major errors. Where I failed in week 2 was in my response to the reading materials and the "big picture" reflection. Firstly, I failed to acknowledge the arbitrary assumptions I was making in logging my gravestones into a framework that was designed for a different place and culture, and how these assumptions could effect my data. Secondly, I wrote the following: 
> It becomes the responsibility of the community to ensure they are respected, and to provide guidance to archaeologists in understanding these ethical dimensions.>
+ The reason I wrote this is because I was writing my Journal entry the day or maybe even the day after it was due. Upon submitting my Journal, I started to question if what I had wrote was actually well thought out. This suspicion was confirmed upon receiving my week 2 feedback which stated:
 >Regarding ethics - especially in archaeology, community engagement/permission/blessing is hugely important. However, I don’t know if the obligation here is on the community to make sure that archaeologists behave. Surely it is on the archaeologists to be aware and respectful?
 + My reaction to this was... "Yeah Tim, Duh". Having the role of community articulated this way in my  feedback made it glaringly apparent that my reflection for that week was "half-baked". I actually felt quite embarrassed that I arbitrarily assigned the ethical responsibilities of an archaeologist onto the community. The reason we discuss the ethical, moral and even legal issues (Week 1 feedback) is precisely because they are our responsibility to consider as archaeologists. So week 2 for me was a double fail in that I did not allow myself enough time to give the Journal material the required amount of reflection, and I failed to implement feedback I received in week 1 appropriately. 
 + Week 3 was more challenging technology-wise, and emotionally (See Challenges). The Fail here was found in the creation of my 3d model of my guitar. It ended up resembling a guitar... that had been smashed to bits. I think I understand why this happened. Since I was using a lens on my camera that didn't allow me to capture the entire guitar in every image, I had many photos that only depicted parts of the guitar. I made the assumption that Meshroom would be able to match the cropped photos with the photos that contained my whole model, however I don't think that was the case. My model for reference:
  <div class="sketchfab-embed-wrapper"> <iframe title="My Guitar.... Hopefully" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; xr-spatial-tracking" xr-spatial-tracking execution-while-out-of-viewport execution-while-not-rendered web-share src="https://sketchfab.com/models/13094e1686e34e15a888a56ff99da72f/embed"> </iframe> <p style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; margin: 5px; color: #4A4A4A;"> <a href="https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/my-guitar-hopefully-13094e1686e34e15a888a56ff99da72f?utm_medium=embed&utm_campaign=share-popup&utm_content=13094e1686e34e15a888a56ff99da72f" target="_blank" style="font-weight: bold; color: #1CAAD9;"> My Guitar.... Hopefully </a> by <a href="https://sketchfab.com/Saltypasta?utm_medium=embed&utm_campaign=share-popup&utm_content=13094e1686e34e15a888a56ff99da72f" target="_blank" style="font-weight: bold; color: #1CAAD9;"> Saltypasta </a> on <a href="https://sketchfab.com?utm_medium=embed&utm_campaign=share-popup&utm_content=13094e1686e34e15a888a56ff99da72f" target="_blank" style="font-weight: bold; color: #1CAAD9;">Sketchfab</a></p></div>
  
  + The body of the guitar is well constructed, which makes sense since I had many good photos of that part of my model. Where the model falls apart is the neck and headstock of the guitar. I believe this is because I had many images like this [[Guitar Neck.JPG]]. If Meshroom did not have any data to place where that photo belonged on the model, it makes sense it would show up as fragments. In making models in the future I would try to keep the whole subject in frame for all my photos.
	
## Win
+ I did manage to make a model that was viewable even if it was fragmented, and that was a win for me. At the very end of the exercise I had trouble zipping and downloading my files, but I figured out how to do it manually. Making 3D models was something I had seen before and been interested in, and getting my feet wet with Meshroom was a win. 
+ Connecting at an emotional level with the graves I recorded in week 3 was another win for me. As said in my week 3 feedback 
>when you feel that, hold on to it. Use it to collapse the distance between ‘now’ and ‘then’.
+ I feel that the connection I made that week allowed me to collapse that distance, and gain a better understanding of what exactly we were working with for this project. The ethical and moral dimensions of what we do felt even more significant than they did before. That was a big win.
## Challenges
+ In week 2, I began to log gravestones into our recording framework. I did this using Findagrave.com as I was unable to get to a cemetery in person. This lead to many challenges including 
	+ Having to guess the gravestone material from an image and googling
	+ No way to measure dimensions of gravestones
	+ No way to know where the gravestone is located in the cemetery
	+ No way to know which way the stone is facing 
	+ Unable to see all of stone in some photos, meaning I could be missing motifs or other text, materials etc.
	+ Unsure if someone is buried or commemorated just based on the photo
	+ Had to resize an image that was too large to upload... Which means I lost resolution in the uploaded image. This loss in quality might effect the readability of a less than perfect gravestone
	+ Many times the gravestones did not fit into the "Cookie-Cutter" like framework we use to record the stones. Often I had to make an arbitrary decision that a stone looked "more like" this rectangle than that rectangle. 
## Implications?
+ One implication that I encountered in week 2 was who was represented in digital archaeology and how? When we record the stones, the data we choose to enter or not enter has implications in which of deceased are represented and how they are represented. For example, I chose a stone in week 3 because it was "newer" than the other graves I recorded. This stone also did not fit well within the recording framework we used. The gravestone belonged to a 6 year old girl named Taylor Adams. The recording framework was centered around what the gravestone was made of, how big it was, the motifs etc. The stone had a rainbow with two clouds on it, and there was no way to record that in our framework. Additionally, Taylor Adams obituary mentions that donations to the C.H.E.O. Foundation would be appreciated. Its possible to include this in the comments section of our form, but does that really communicate what Taylor would have wanted? How would Taylor and her family want her grave to be depicted? If Taylor or others wish to inspire others to action, are we as archaeologists disrespecting their wishes by ignoring some information, and focusing on others? 

## Previous Feedback
+ I have spoken about my implementation of my feedback in earlier sections, so ill use this space to respond to some of the feedback I received in week 3:
>Re NFTs…. Look up, ‘Tulip mania’.... 
Re the journal… I am not always sure whether or not asking people to go out into graveyards is a good idea. The resonances you spotted, how the memorial to Taylor Adams connected with your cousin, and your own family… these can be very hard to deal with. The thing is, what you’re feeling- that’s what would make you a good archaeologist. We do feel a distance from those who’ve been gone for longer, but we also have to acknowledge that ‘longer’ doesn’t mean the same thing in all cultures. There are those who would feel the same kind of jolt even for graves thousands of years old. And so, when you feel that, hold on to it. Use it to collapse the distance between ‘now’ and ‘then’.

+ Re 'Tulip Mania'.... that sounds scarily similar to what I think is happening with NFTs. I do want to clarify that my suggestion for using NFTs for digital artifacts was more centered around the value of Blockchain technology in verifying the authenticity of a digital item or token. Without getting too far into the weeds, if one of the challenges of digital reproduction/models of real life artifacts is ownership, Blockchain may be a way to restore that sense of ownership to the appropriate party. I'm certainly not going to spend millions of dollars on a NFT Tulip Bulb just to find out its worthless in a few months. 
+ Re Journal Feedback... Speaking for myself here, I think its a good idea to have us work with graveyards. Yes, some parts are emotionally challenging. Yes, there are many ethical dimensions to consider, but these challenges are *why* it's a good idea. We are not being evaluated on how ethical we are, or how much we are affected doing this work. The point is to engage with these things in a meaningful way, and to come out of this course with a greater understanding than we came in with. Challenge is, in my opinion, necessary for that to happen. Furthermore when it comes to contemplating our mortality and existence, I think a collaborative setting with a mentor is an excellent place to do this. We are not being asked to wrestle with these ideas alone, we have our peers and our mentor to reach out to if need be. I wanted to communicate that to you after sharing my personal experiences in week 3, and I  hope that I was able to ease some doubt about the exercise.

## Changes I'm making moving forward
+ I am changing my schedule for when I start working on this course. I will be reading and attempting the exercises and readings earlier in the week so I have time to give every piece extra reflection if needed.
+ I will try and be more active in discord as well. I have not been utilizing the collaborative aspect of the class to its full potential, and this is part of the 5th learning outcome:
> Given that this is an online course, another outcome will be your ability to conduct such research independently. However, no one operates in a vacuum; digital archaeologists collaborate to troubleshoot or develop technologies, and through open practices to data sharing and reuse, learn to build upon each others’ work in a collaborative fashion. (_collaboration, professionalization, methodology_)